OSDOCS#11789: HCP docs split - Prepare your environment (#82688)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-prereq-roles-overview.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * rosa_planning/rosa-hcp-prepare-iam-resources.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: MODULE
[id="rosa-prereq-roles-overview"]
= Overview of required roles

> To create and manage your {product-title} cluster, you must create several account-wide and cluster-wide roles. If you intend to use {cluster-manager} to create or manage your cluster, some additional roles are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create and manage your {product-title} cluster, you must create several account-wide and cluster-wide roles. If you intend to use {cluster-manager} to create or manage your cluster, you need some additional roles.
```

To create and manage clusters:: Several account-wide roles are required to create and manage ROSA clusters. These roles only need to be created once per AWS account, and do not need to be created fresh for each cluster. You can specify your own prefix, or use the default prefix (`ManagedOpenShift`).
+

> The required account-wide roles are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following required account-wide roles:
```

Author: Went with "The following account-wide roles are required:"

ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
** `<prefix>-HCP-ROSA-Worker-Role`
** `<prefix>-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role`
** `<prefix>-HCP-ROSA-Installer-Role`
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
** `<prefix>-Worker-Role`
** `<prefix>-Support-Role`
** `<prefix>-Installer-Role`
** `<prefix>-ControlPlane-Role`
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]

+
[NOTE]
====
Role creation does not request your AWS access or secret keys. AWS Security Token Service (STS) is used as the basis of this workflow. AWS STS uses temporary, limited-privilege credentials to provide authentication.
====

To manage cluster features provided by Operators:: Cluster-specific Operator roles (`operator-roles` in the ROSA CLI), obtain the temporary permissions required to carry out cluster operations for features provided by Operators, such as managing back-end storage, ingress, and registry. This requires the configuration of an OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider, which connects to AWS Security Token Service (STS) to authenticate Operator access to AWS resources.
+
Operator roles are required for every cluster, as several Operators are used to provide cluster features by default.
+

> The required Operator roles are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following required Operator roles:
```

** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-cluster-csi-drivers-ebs-cloud-credentials`
** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-cloud-network-config-controller-credentials`
** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-machine-api-aws-cloud-credentials`
** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-cloud-credential-operator-cloud-credentials`
** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-image-registry-installer-cloud-credentials`
** `<cluster_name>-<hash>-openshift-ingress-operator-cloud-credentials`

To use {cluster-manager}:: The web user interface, {cluster-manager}, requires you to create additional roles in your AWS account to create a trust relationship between that AWS account and the {cluster-manager}.
+
This trust relationship is achieved through the creation and association of the `ocm-role` AWS IAM role. This role has a trust policy with the AWS installer that links your Red{nbsp}Hat account to your AWS account. In addition, you also need a `user-role` AWS IAM role for each web UI user, which serves to identify these users. This `user-role` AWS IAM role has no permissions.
+

> The AWS IAM roles required to use {cluster-manager} are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following AWS IAM roles required to use {cluster-manager}:
```
